doc/input/participant/component_scheduler_service.rst, before:

.. Copyright @ 2021 VW Group. All rights reserved.
.. 
..     This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla
..     Public License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed
..     with this file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
.. 
.. If it is not possible or desirable to put the notice in a particular file, then
.. You may include the notice in a location (such as a LICENSE file in a
.. relevant directory) where a recipient would be likely to look for such a notice.
.. 
.. You may add additional accurate notices of copyright ownership.


.. _label_scheduler_service:

==================
Scheduler Service
==================

.. sidebar::   Scheduler Service

        .. contents::

Summary
=======

+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                                 |  Scheduler Service                                              |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Component Interface                                  |  :cpp:class:`fep3::arya::ISchedulerService`                     |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| RPC Service Interface                                |  :cpp:class:`fep3::rpc::arya::IRPCSchedulerServiceDef`          |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| RPC Service Description                              |  :ref:`label_rpc_service_scheduler_service`                     |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| native delivery                                      |  built-in                                                       |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| CPP-plugin possible                                  |  yes                                                            |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| C-plugin possible                                    |  yes                                                            |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+


Overview
========

The :ref:`label_scheduler_service` manages schedulers and is responsible for the scheduling of the Jobs of a :term:`FEP Participant`.
Every participant has one :ref:`label_scheduler_service`. Various participants in a :term:`FEP System` may use different schedulers depending on the corresponding use case.

Component Interface
===================

The :cpp:class:`fep3::arya::ISchedulerService` interface offers the following functionality:

* Register and unregister schedulers.


.. _label_scheduler_service_scheduler:

Scheduler
---------

.. _label_scheduler_service_active_scheduler:

Active scheduler
================

The :ref:`label_scheduler_service` has one :ref:`label_scheduler_service_active_scheduler` which is responsible for the scheduling.


Native Implementations
======================

Following built-in native implementation is available and will be used automatically.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Code Macro
   * - :ref:`label_clock_based_scheduler`
     - :c:macro:`FEP3_SCHEDULER_CLOCK_BASED`


.. _label_clock_based_scheduler:

clock_based_scheduler
---------------------------

The :ref:`label_clock_based_scheduler` triggers Jobs based on the local time of the participant provided by the :ref:`label_clock_service_main_clock` and the :cpp:member:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration::_cycle_sim_time` of the Jobs.
The Jobs will cyclically be triggered every time the corresponding Job's cycle time passes.

The :ref:`label_clock_based_scheduler` will retrieve the Jobs from the :ref:`label_job_registry` when the :ref:`label_scheduler_service` is initializing (:cpp:func:`fep3::arya::IComponent::initialize`).
Therefore jobs have to be added when the :ref:`label_element_interface` is

* loading (:cpp:func:`fep3::arya::IElement::loadElement`),
* or unloading (:cpp:func:`fep3::arya::IElement::unloadElement`).

Also, for every Job execution a run time check is performed. The check is configured with the Jobs :cpp:class:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration` (see class documentation for details).
The run time check will check that the execution time of a job does not exceed the configured :cpp:member:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration::_max_runtime_real_time` of the Job.
The time check is done based on wall clock time and not simulation time. Using :cpp:member:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration::_runtime_violation_strategy`
a strategy can be configured that will be applied in case the max runtime is exceeded.

.. note:: Jobs may be configured using a :ref:`label_job_registry_job_configuration`.

Commit message:

All changes for FEP SDK 3.2.0 (#4)

doc/input/participant/component_scheduler_service.rst, after:

.. Copyright @ 2021 VW Group. All rights reserved.
.. 
.. This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla 
.. Public License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed 
.. with this file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.


.. _label_scheduler_service:

==================
Scheduler Service
==================

.. sidebar::   Scheduler Service

        .. contents::

Summary
=======

+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                                 |  Scheduler Service                                              |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Component Interface                                  |  :cpp:class:`fep3::arya::ISchedulerService`              |br|   |
|                                                      |  :cpp:class:`fep3::catelyn::ISchedulerService`           |br|   |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| RPC Service Interface                                |  :cpp:class:`fep3::rpc::arya::IRPCSchedulerServiceDef`          |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| RPC Service Description                              |  :ref:`label_rpc_service_scheduler_service`                     |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| native delivery                                      |  CPP-plugin                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| CPP-plugin possible                                  |  yes                                                            |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| C-plugin possible                                    |  yes                                                            |
+------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+


Overview
========

The :ref:`label_scheduler_service` manages schedulers and is responsible for the scheduling of the Jobs of a :term:`FEP Participant`.
Every participant has one :ref:`label_scheduler_service`. Various participants in a :term:`FEP System` may use different schedulers depending on the corresponding use case.

Component Interface
===================

The :cpp:class:`fep3::arya::ISchedulerService` interface offers the following functionality:

* Register and unregister schedulers.


.. _label_scheduler_service_scheduler:

Scheduler
---------

.. _label_scheduler_service_active_scheduler:

Active scheduler
================

The :ref:`label_scheduler_service` has one :ref:`label_scheduler_service_active_scheduler` which is responsible for the scheduling.


Native Implementations
======================

Following built-in native implementation is available and will be used automatically.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Code Macro
   * - :ref:`label_clock_based_scheduler`
     - :c:macro:`FEP3_SCHEDULER_CLOCK_BASED`


.. _label_clock_based_scheduler:

clock_based_scheduler
---------------------------

The :ref:`label_clock_based_scheduler` triggers Jobs based on the local time of the participant provided by the :ref:`label_clock_service_main_clock` and the :cpp:member:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration::_cycle_sim_time` of the Jobs.
The Jobs will cyclically be triggered every time the corresponding Job's cycle time passes.

The :ref:`label_clock_based_scheduler` will retrieve the Jobs from the :ref:`label_job_registry` when the :ref:`label_scheduler_service` is initializing (:cpp:func:`fep3::arya::IComponent::initialize`).
Therefore jobs have to be added when the :ref:`label_element_interface` is

* loading (:cpp:func:`fep3::base::IElement::loadElement`),
* or unloading (:cpp:func:`fep3::base::IElement::unloadElement`).

Every job triggered by time or data will always be executed through a thread pool, which is owned by the scheduler.
The thread pool will be started automatically while starting the scheduler and will wait for all unfinished jobs while stopping the scheduler. 

Also, for every Job execution a run time check is performed. The check is configured with the Jobs :cpp:class:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration` (see class documentation for details).
The run time check will check that the execution time of a job does not exceed the configured :cpp:member:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration::_max_runtime_real_time` of the Job.
The time check is done based on wall clock time and not simulation time. Using :cpp:member:`fep3::arya::JobConfiguration::_runtime_violation_strategy`
a strategy can be configured that will be applied in case the max runtime is exceeded.

.. note:: Jobs may be configured using a :ref:`label_job_registry_job_configuration`.

Interface Changes
=================

+------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Namespace                                            |  Changes                                                               |
+------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| catelyn                                              |  :cpp:class:`fep3::catelyn::IScheduler`                           |br| |
|                                                      |  :cpp:func:`fep3::catelyn::IScheduler::initialize`                |br| |
|                                                      |  :cpp:class:`fep3::catelyn::ISchedulerRegistry`                   |br| |
|                                                      |  :cpp:func:`fep3::catelyn::ISchedulerRegistry::registerScheduler` |br| |
|                                                      |  :cpp:class:`fep3::catelyn::ISchedulerService`                    |br| |
+------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. |br| raw:: html

     <br>
